when these efforts started to show a
little bit of success that's when the
government moved in Katara was the code
word for counterintelligence program and
it was a program the FBI created in 1956
to go after the Commish party with
intentions of trying to neutralize the
party but it had a business in 1967 they
start what became known as MH chaos a
code word for illegal domestic
operations within the United States
counterintelligence staff under James
angleton was not the only CIA office
which was involved in illegal operations
within the United States and with the
general attempt to get information on
the foreign hand in the protest movement
the office of security was another major
effort by the our CIA I've seen
top-secret documents from the White
House authored by Nixon communicating
with J Edgar Hoover specifically about
the Pap test Hoover had know if you want
to call it an enemy list that headless
but his difficult sailor but Nixon's men
and they pulled the Watergate so there I
guess they could do just about anything
the Black Panther Party was looked at as
the number one threat to the internal
security of the United States of America
these are word by word verbatim quotes
from J Edgar Hoover the uf6 denied every
branch and office of the Black Panther
Party and when we shape fashion form
another was attacked by the powerstrips
and law enforcement agencies and so on
like walking wounded you know just like
they've been in Vietnam victims of gun
battles and sieges and isolation and
torture destroyed families and dead
parents
nobody knows about them and nobody
really cares and that story is one this
hasn't been told you
and at the University of California at
Los Angeles to Black Panthers were shot
to death during a black students meeting
on the campus last night it to FBI
informants and P Nights flares had shot
and killed
bunchy Carter and John Huggins
I'm the UCLA campus the AUSA
organization slapped a number of black
partner time lane while is gone with
John Huggins so when she told him that
somebody from the organization has
slapped her he pulled his pistol out
this is when the two brothers are
supposedly Steiner brother supposedly
steps out from behind the doors and open
fire and accuse John and kills budget
and the FBI agent who was controlling -
and pharmacist was concerned that some
white students might have been shot from
campus the members of the US
organization or taken from the crime
scene
with the FBI the government or whoever
power will call until whatever they were
able to kill a party when they killed
bunchy when they killed bunchy they
killed the party we just didn't know it
[Music]
he was april 1st 1969 we were taken down
to the Manhattan district attorney's
office in the wee hours of the morning
then arouse forbid my teams of my
machine gun toting police' jean-robert's
had the dubious distinction of having
been michael mixes bodyguard when he was
assassinated he was one of the major
ages in the Panther 21 case they brought
us all and put us in one room they brung
Ralph white sedan the other of the cop
agent with his sawed-off shotgun and
they brung it man with his head down
like he's under arrest so came in
another room and they brought Jane
Robinson and another officer now looking
like he would depress like he was
arrested and it was down there that we
realized that there were three
undercover agents they were actively
involved in framing us for the charges
for which we were arrested after they
get to conspiracy charges on you they
let the agents outside door and they go
back out in community as nothing's wrong
or they were still Panthers when they
wasn't fans at all they were just he
just thought he was afraid the Black
Panther Party
most of the Panther 21 spent two years
in prison after a trial that lasted 15
months a jury came back with a not
guilty verdict in 45 minutes on all 150
counts of conspiracy
it was a colossal victory
to have defeated of states attempt to
criminalize a bouncing party Eldridge
Cleaver the Black Panther leader fled to
Cuba to avoid being returned to jail
arrived in Algeria today to attend the
pan-african cultural festival in Algiers
FBI director J Edgar Hoover today
asserted that of the black extremist
groups the Black Panthers represent the
greatest internal threat to the nation
in his report for fiscal year 1969
Hoover said the Panthers have
perpetrated numerous assaults on police
and have engaged in violent
confrontations throughout the country I
would look at is one of the two leaders
of the path is extraordinarily talented
21 years old articulate watch some of
his film hear him speak
[Music]
there was a dangerous man he could
persuade people that there was injustice
that the United States ought to be
changed he was the heart and soul of the
Chicago chapter of the Black Panther
Party and just a just an awesome
motivator you depress it will he be
white black brown teal and he began to
forge coalitions between failure Street
gangs or youth organizations in Chicago
and and by doing that and by being a
charisma leader and being one who could
mobilize the people then particularly
the youth you became a notice by the
federal government
the FBI never killed personally killed
any Panthers they always had local
police departments do their dirty work
and they began to devise a scheme that
culminated in his assassination while he
was asleep drugged by his security
officer who was also a police informant
shape police and Chicago murdered Fred
Hampton
it had happened apparently about four
o'clock in the morning of December
fourth I didn't hear about it till 6
o'clock that night because it wasn't in
town and they popped this picture up on
the screen actually two pictures one of
Fred Hampton the one of Mark Clark and
that was just stunned I was staring at
the screen and realize those crying
they shot that place up in ways you
couldn't believe his wife pregnant shot
up in the bed there she survived as did
the fetus but the French body was
riddled the walls of the room riddled he
counts doors of bullet holes there he
never got out of the bed he was murdered
right there
2:30 in the morning they claim they're
serving a search warrant don't we know
anything about human rights you don't
serve a search warrant at 2:30 in the
morning one of them crashing in with
guns blazing and killed people asleep in
their beds and the United States of
America or do you in essence was an
assassination authorised by the FBI
they're sanctioned by the FBI the
criminal conspiracy unit of LAPD their
mission in life was to investigate
extremist groups primarily the Black
Panthers and the FBI had a special unit
called the s2 unit they euphemistically
call it their racial squad their focus
was on the Black Panther Party
so the FBI's of array squad and the
LAPD's criminal conspiracy section
worked literally hand-in-hand and
bringing down the LA a Black Panther
Party and its leadership Pratt in
particular when lunch occurred and John
Huggins had been assassinated that
became the leader of the Panthers and
now the FBI had to get rid of that
Geronimo Pratt was a Vietnam veteran he
been a paratrooper and one of many
medals in Vietnam including a Purple
Heart she trained all the Panthers in
Los Angeles on how to defend the office
against attack
he was the defense minister so he was
clearly somebody that the FBI was out to
neutralize the offender a
69 los and with special weapons and
tactics criminal conspiracy section LAPD
FBI
the Black Panthers as we all know were
destroyed as an organization through
these illegal FBI operations and
certainly the CIA violated the privacy
and the rights of thousands upon
thousands of Americans through the
illegal operations which they agreed to
do under Richard Holmes was director any
and everything was done to members of
the Black Panther Party to destroy not
only the bright Panther Party and other
organizations but to demoralize people
to discredit us in the eyes of the
people to criminalize our existence in
the consciousness in mass of the people
it's physical violence and torture per
se there's nothing modern about it and
there is nothing sophisticated or
scientific about it it is the base
against which psychological warfare has
its meaning
we went to interview dr. Mutulu Shakur
who had cured thousands of drug addicts
with the experimental treatment of
acupuncture we found him in an
underground prison
the black liberation movement in 1969
lost something like 43 people were
killed and something like 785 people
were arrested and put in prison and any
other country with the population that
new African people represent any other
country in the world that will be
considered war we went to interview
Mumia abu-jamal the Peabody
award-winning journalists we found him
awaiting execution on death row in
essence is a war against black America a
war is the emergence of a black insight
who could lead
[Music]
in 1970 there were tremendous trials the
United States government began to try to
sweep up all of the leftovers of the 60s
into these major conspiracies and they
had the black panther trial the Chicago
717 it was just tons and tons of these
types of crowd many of our people ripped
to the wayside psychologically
emotionally and physically 15-hour
shootouts Philadelphia New Orleans Los
Angeles San Diego the frame-up for
hundreds of Panthers across the country
our ridiculous trumped-up charges we
were the first Waco the new African New
Bethel incident when the police came the
Detroit Police can't even either try to
shoot up everybody in peace will
demonstrate to try to kill them they'd
be shooting under pills and shooting a
little children running in crime there's
nothing to me has been more painful all
the people I know to died in Vietnam
then those comrades who died out in the
streets there is nothing nothing
and
in 1970 my good friend Julio Rodin of
the young Lords party was killed in the
New York prison called the tumors if
they were doing it in Vietnam and it was
perfectly legitimate to go out and kill
as many Vietnamese as one could or
Vietcong as one could then why not kill
enemies in the United States today a
judge said Newton freed on $50,000 bond
to await a new truck new fees last file
and manslaughter conviction will
overturned by a higher court this year
so now he'll be tried again and in the
meantime he is out on bail he is back on
the street before Newton got out of
prison the founder of the Black Panther
Party sat and talked about his plans for
the Panthers now I plan to go on with
our expansion and also to to make even a
stronger tie with the struggling people
the world because they represent
two-thirds of the people J Edgar Hoover
today characterized the Black Panthers
as the most dangerous and violence
throne of all the extremist groups now
active in the United States they were
forces in fluid trying to undermine the
relationship between not only myself and
the leadership of the Black Panther
Party national leadership but between
the various forces within the Black
Panther Party who wanted to make the
Black Panther Party the more responsive
and democratic and those who wanted to
maintain the Black Panther Party as an
extension of autocratic
control
of the Central Committee the search
committee the Black Panther Party when I
come out of gee I realize it again
Huey NIM was actually opposed to this I
says no we have to have a broader
Central Committee because when I come
out of jail he was sitting there with
him and David he went to jail and he
Lane Brown and a couple of other peoples
in this is not such a committee and I
says Huey this whole Supreme Commander
crap has got to go and use the private
conversations I had with you and you
know so my puppet comes he was trying to
absolute eyes himself we had we had felt
that um all the contradictions that was
happening between David heat and all the
other people in the party of the central
leadership and a breakdown in centralism
and all of that
well the resolve with you he came home
we knew he came out Geronimo remain amid
one central committee for whatever
reason Yui after he got out of jail he
wanted to have the total control of the
party but the way the party was set up
at the Central Committee that was
impossible
Geronimo being one of the strongest
personalities on the Central Committee
just had to be eliminated it was around
this time that Alma Geronimo Pratt was
was captured and branded as a as agent
by David Hilliard in the Central
Committee of the Black Panther Party
from the west coast of course this was a
total fabrication Geronimo was not an
agent in fact the individual pointed a
finger
Geronimo and declared ma age at Melvin
cotton Smith was himself a police
informer an agent who was assigned to
Geronimo by David Hilliard ice flipped
apparently as open than the leadership
of the Black Panther Party on a San
Francisco television talk show Huey
Newton in the studio talked with
fugitive Eldridge Cleaver speaking by
telephone from Algeria cleavers had a
purge of black panther members as
tearing the party apart blamed it on
David Hilliard
in demand of the ouster of Hilliard as
Panther chief of staff
what we call program brown mail they ran
to one person and signed it he writes of
numbers and sign each other's person see
and it really cracked the Black Panther
Party and to by creating two factions
all of this was happening at the same
time that he was planning his itinerary
to come back east
and the government used the history and
the paranoia around these issues to give
you the impression that the New York
Panthers were loyal to him and they
determine that is were you were wrong if
I see your account you had
Coronel Pro was the whole cause of the
split between the different faction of
the party that caused the death of Sam
Napier in terms of the actual physical
integrity and well-being of the Panther
Sam Napier might have been the most
important first of all the newspaper was
the most important entity and tool an
institution that the Panthers had and he
was in charge at the paper the loss of
Sam they pier wasn't just the loss of a
person who who was a paper sale of me
was like a spirit in the party a strong
positive spirit that permeated the whole
party and you lost us like a friend a
brother Robert Webb was the ranking
Panther an entire East Coast
he had the rank of Field Marshal which
was a Central Committee position it was
an underground secret rank the police
knew who these people were the police
knew that they had orchestrated this
conflict
they gloated over it in the documents
when they said that they could take
credit for for the murder of Robert
Webb's murder and if they can portray
credit for the irreconcilable
differences in splitting the Black
Panther Party well here we came to the
northeast we in New York responsible for
his security the government knew this
through the agency through the mail they
said threats death threats to here we
knew purportedly coming from us on the
East Coast saying that you know you were
faithful Eldridge Cleaver and that when
he came back east we were gonna kill him
extremely paranoid I was told that I was
suspended from the Black Panther Party
for threatening his life so life is very
tough that a funny thing happened to all
of us on the way to the grave youie
David sent me underground with your
honorable but there's no intentions of
us being successful but with the
intentions of us eventually being killed
I think their plan was that we would be
killed by the police
we wouldn't become martyrs they would be
able to raise us as martyrs and go on
with their own program I following
orders did when I supposed to do ronimal
follow orders did what he was supposed
to and then we end up being in the
middle of a split between the Black
Panther Party and they use that as a
reason to expel us and to break with
Eldridge and at the same time that this
was going on the Panther 21 in prison
we're contemplating writing an open
letter criticizing the leadership of the
Black Panther Party
various issues it was only two things
that could happen that if we could
either do spend the rest of we go to
prison or the cemetery and knowing that
people liked Raman Myers and Robert Webb
and Sam appear Fred Bennett
and Fred Hamptons had made the ultimate
sacrifices that meant that we could
either back up and give up and let them
win or we could struggle against it on
one end we had the Huey people who were
out to do within and on the other side
we had the government who was out to
kill us so we we were in between the
rock and a hard place
out of that came the birth of the
underground the Black Liberation Army
the armed wing of the Black Panther
Party whose stated purpose was to start
and initiate an offensive military
campaign against the forces of reaction
blog came into being when those who did
physical work above-ground when they
were more or less from the repressive
forces was forced underground because of
their political work in the community
then they became part of blah so
basically it was taking the war to the
enemy instead of waiting the enemy to
bring a war to you and that's what the
black the Red Army was about
[Music]
the public at large has a hard time
understanding how often innocent people
are wrongly convicted Los Angeles Police
Department the DA's office and the FBI
will determine that Pratt should stay
behind bars and so we tried to find some
other case to bring against him and they
finally decided on an unsolved murder
case called the tennis court murder that
came out of Santa Monica
and charged him with this on the basis
of some shenanigans involving a FBI
informant named Julius Butler said it
Pratt's drought he was not an FBI
informant we have a ton of material they
clearly indicate that Butler was a an
FBI informant as an example here we have
an FBI Federal Bureau of Investigation
August 19th 1969 and all the information
he was giving the FBI during that
interview Chris hee FBI has been a place
itself in a position of being able to
deny whatever happens just the way
they're denying that Joyce brothers was
an informant Butler said that he has
written a letter containing information
relating to an involvement of BP members
and an affair that could put them in a
gas chamber they had an informant file
and Butler was contacted about three
dozen times but they said working
planning informant said that he was
expelled from the BPP in August of 1969
at Pratt's trial he said he was not
expelled then he quit now according to
FBI's own records their own telephone
tap they later realized that Geronimo
Pratt was in Oakland at the time of the
tennis court murder
the ballistics person came in and
testified that the bullet taken from the
victim did not match ballistically the
barrel of the gun well the way they got
around that was they had Julius Butler
as part of his confession tell the jury
that not only did Pratt confess the
crime
to me but he did it but it also told me
that he threw the barrel of the gun away
so that took care of that the
counterintelligence program had
successfully divided the Black Panther
Party into two opposing groups and the
Newton group had barred any members of
its group from having anything to do
speaking on the phone talking to and
definitely not testifying in trial of
the other group Geronimo Pratt had been
expelled he was in the other group and
so almost all the people who had
attended these staff meetings in which
he was present in which I was present
were unable upon pain of being expelled
from the Panther Party to testify this
murder in Geronimo's case clearly was
not Geronimo then those government
agents need to be brought to justice and
that's that's that's the responsibility
of people in this country at this point
in time considered to try to smash the
Black Panther Party they stopped
actually attacking us didn't mean it it
have no covert crap going on
infiltration of cocaine into the Black
Panther Party its leadership here ap
Newton being the main target and every
once in while senses you why you
snorting this cocaine this ain't the
thing now I don't say this because I'm
trying to destroy a huge character what
I'm trying to tell people you have to
learn to know the whole truth
I had clear impression that chemical
warfare would be utilized against the
white panther part we have taken a
position in our rules against anyone
shooting heroin and knock hardest about
would be Liv Smith from the Black
Panther Party because we essentially for
anti-drug in our operations I'd say in
my analysis and reflection in research
that they were mind control operations
run against the Black Panther Party as
well as a lot of other operations
psychological warfare programs
and when I say chemical warfare I'm
talking about chemical substances like
alcohol and okay okay Ultra was what you
might call research program by the CIA
to determine of psychotropic drugs
mind-altering drugs might be used for
intelligence purposes either for
chemical warfare for the interrogation
of intelligence assets or the
neutralization of targets see remember
if you read some of the coin check pro
documents they had a psychological
profile on here on me on Eldridge they
knew they could use you and they knew
that they could trick Eldridge into
certain level of thinking so what I mean
they develop this over a period of time
now here we got a situation where you
got some party members to talk to me
that they believe here we got duped in
to a small-scale lab up methodologically
just trying to pipe and the party
basically from people's organization to
you is private army that's basically
what happened it was agreed that I would
run for mayor of Oakland and then here
we insisted that Elaine Brown had to run
for City Council woman in large we used
to goddamn campaign and then I found out
May late May 1974 that Huey was trying
to take over the drug trade in Oakland
California
jassie Huey the party is over
the committee will resolve itself into
executive session the room will be
cleared and oil no director of the
National Security Agency has ever before
been required by Congress to testify in
open session there is a great deal about
the best intelligence service in the
world that we would be proud to tell to
bring into perspective what we have had
to say recently about the missteps or
misdeeds of the past I believe that I
can go back over my experiences and the
Justice Department and find some areas
in which the bureau is not fully
accountable to me yes senator William C
Sullivan retired as the FBI's chief
investigator six years ago after a
falling-out with Jay drew was killed in
a deer on an accident in New Hampshire
today Sullivan was 65 bill Sullivan who
was the number three man in the bureau
in charge of division five domestic
intelligence expressed extreme remorse
to me about his role and a suggesting an
anonymous letter to Martin Luther King
for kinga's commit suicide a week before
he was going to be called upon to
testify before the House Committee on
assassinations and he was out in a
pasture near his New Hampshire home and
he was mistaken supposedly for a deer by
and
hunting and was killed I understand from
the news media that the son was an
experienced hunter and I don't know how
an experienced hunter could mistake a
man who's dressed in their red plaid
jacket for the head of a deer and then I
have never seen I read deer but they
were there at this some where's the boss
well in a human society there aren't
really any bosses but who is the real
leader and who is the person whose words
are most meaningful to the party as a
whole but there hasn't any question
about I mean it always that that Huey is
that person I had the distinct
impression consistently from 1971 that
miss Elaine Brown was a hearty place
intelligence operative inside the Black
Panther Party I think he made Brown came
in through your own Anthony you know
she's followed the same course of
devious type of activities so I'm saying
all this to say that they got involved
with people and caused a lot of problems
but we was aware of it we just were
aware of the extent that the LAPD the
federal government was calling tail CIA
FBI Wonderware to the extent that these
people involved she acknowledges in her
own words
and her book takes a power that in fact
she had been educated groomed taught at
the hands of a longtime Central
Intelligence Agency operative J Richard
Kennedy hmm
anyone can plan out about in David
book the FBI and dr. Martin Luther King
so many party members literally have
told me they believe this that this
woman was connected some kind of way and
got step by step piece by piece
Huey hooked over into some notion that
he could get more money behind the scene
if he step-by-step methodologically
divides the black panther plan we've
always wanted to represent the will of
the people they're not interested in
socialism at this time because they
believe that they can get their just
desserts
in this capitalist system when they when
the people democratically want a change
in system through a social system than
the party will be the first to have
solidarity john stockwell former station
chief of the CIA angola i said well i
want to say this to you very clear the
huey p newton that people see today is a
direct result of operations run by the
Central Intelligence Agency to ensure
that he would turn out the way that he
is some people have a distorted view of
me and it gives me very much trouble if
see it adds to the sort of timid
personality that I already have it makes
me uncomfortable because I know that I
can't give them all of those things that
their Idol is supposed to and I don't
want to appear to them a fake but I
would just like to tell them that that
you know I'm just another regular human
being
here we Pinotti
you actually became doctors your opinion
PhD
eventually became a crackhead and he
eventually was assassinated you know
[Music]
in the course of our journey we
discovered that certain individuals
involved in the demise of the Black
Panther Party but also the same
individuals were involved in the demise
of norvania
it began in 1973 after the church
committee hearings when they proclaimed
that they were never going to execute
the road operations against dissenting
organizations yet at the very time they
were conducting such an operation
against the American Indian Movement
a program directed towards the American
Indian Movement very similar to the
program directors got some black panther
party the same bag of tricks in each
case you have a very concerted
disinformation campaign you have the
insertion of infiltrators in the
development of informants either using
the infiltrators as provocateur is
attempting to convert bona fide
activists into provocateurs or
disruptive elements within their own
organization
they literally with Unleashed death
squads to make sure that the people who
were living on the $1,200 a year the
tarpaper Shack it continued to live on a
$1,200 in a tarpaper Shack one of the
personnel who are involved in
persecuting and later framing Geronimo
Pratt was also involved in the
fabrication of evidence to convict
Leonard Peltier this was an FBI agent by
the name of Richard W health
well Richard the elder which is Richard
G held was basically one of the
architects of court out bro strangely
enough both the father and son were
involved in the operation on Pine Ridge
which led to the frame-up of Leonard
Peltier on murder charges
basically the pair of military
operations of 250 to 300 FBI agents SWAT
personnel on the reservation for the
three month period of time to once and
for all break the back of the American
Indian Movement armored personnel
carriers with heavy machine guns m16s
were in camouflage uniforms over flights
by phantom f-4 reconnaissance jets and
Huey helicopters and remote sensing
devices it was very like law was
deployed in Vietnam at that time
when a people went into Wounded Knee
there were chiefs and all elders and
some of the America need to move with
members these were the Oglala people
they didn't have any weapons they went
in there peacefully they were surrounded
with machine guns armored soups
personnel carriers say people picked up
arms and you know there were no
comparison what the government had we
shot back it was self-defense
the government had spent nearly a
billion dollars in the military
operation in Pine Ridge and that's a
billion 1975 a 1973 dollars that's
probably more than all the money
invested in social programs on the
reservation from 1870 onward a people's
movement to control the resources and
land on the reservations happen to
coincide with the energy crisis in the
Black Hills there were at least a dozen
large multinational corporations energy
corporations involved and the government
purports to represent the people but it
really represents vested economic
interest the movements that are working
for positive social change
threaten the interests of the
transnational corporations and the
government is essentially an instrument
of corporate policy
leonard peltier leader of aim the
american indian movement had been in
jail for 20 years we finally got
permission to interview him three days
after we saw him at Leavenworth he was
moved nowhere near where to
Leonard Peltier is a prisoner of the
longest war in history United States
that's the war against the indigenous
people of the United States he didn't
shoot anybody he didn't kill anybody yet
he was convicted because two FBI agents
hadn't been killed and somebody had to
pay question then becomes what is he in
that cage for and the answer is to serve
as an example example of the arbitrary
ability of the government in the United
States to repress the legitimate
aspirations for liberation of native
people all native people he serves that
purpose so long as he's there even
though it's known that he's not guilty
the specific offense which he was
convicted he's been sentenced to two
life sentences but finally they admitted
in the last argument of the case and
November of 1992 and but they didn't
know who shot the two FBI agents they
said it several times in different ways
without any ambiguity we don't know who
killed the agents we don't know who
fired the fatal shots and yet here's
Leonard Peltier serving these sentences
we're addressing President Clinton to
give tenancy to Leonard Peltier in the
name of simple justice now
[Music]
you ran away from slaves
the United States Army of course has its
contingency plans for putting down civil
disturbance in the United States they
have these programs in the 1960s called
cabled splicer and garden club for
entering onto the scene in the event of
civil disturbance in the United States
these activities continued on into the
1980s but the main agency that became
involved in the on the civilian side was
FEMA the Federal Emergency Management
Agency the FEMA has created a great deal
of paranoia probably for very good
reason there their whole reason for
existence is to is to take control and
keep things going in time of a crisis of
you know earthquake or military crisis
and in the instance of a military or
political crisis we don't know what
extremes are willing to go to they have
gone up there martial law plans one of
the things that that grew out of the
military contingency planning such as
the cable splicer and garden plot was
the military assistance to the police
forces in organizing these and training
these swat squads these are in fact
outright militarized police units even
though they are civilian and the United
States military the army particularly
had much to do with the establishment of
these units through the 1960s and into
the 70s now I think all the way across
the country there are SWAT units
everywhere and they started out in
places like Chicago I believe in Los
Angeles but they were done with the help
of you know
US military our x84 was a plan to drop -
to collect dissidents around the country
who might be involved in violent
activity and throw them basically
entertainment can some people call the
concentration camps they had I believe
something like 17 military installations
selected in the United States where they
would house up to I believe something
like a 150,000 or 250,000 people in the
event that the the streets turned to
chaos if Reagan had invaded Central
America in the early 1980s so despite
what the director of FBI of the FBI may
be saying currently you can assume that
they're still conducting covert
operations they were going to round up
every dissident and every person who
took to the street plus a lot of
foreigners at the same time because they
did not want to have the situation
develop as it had against Johnson and
Nixon over the Vietnam War so in the
early eighties Reagan said only had it
was all prepared the statement declaring
Martial Law suspending the Constitution
and then they could go out and take
everybody over to these military
reservations the equivalent
concentration camps and just hold him
there until what he wanted to do was
done the government is definitely
shifting intelligence resources to the
private sector and one of the reasons
for this is to escape public scrutiny
under law such as the Freedom of
Information Act Funeral Information Act
only applies to government agencies you
have to imagine technology 20-30 years
in advance of of what we're using today
all that is classified it was classified
for a very good reason because it's
being put to criminal uses bugging an
interception of private communications
the the disappearance of privacy you
might say what's going on now is that
there are large private corporate
databases accumulated that accumulate
information on individuals track their
activities track their economic out
these corporations would call them
selves credit corporations or whatever
but there are essentially intelligence
operations
suggest what
as a subsidy we will use it is knowledge
this year actually a cop's wife getting
into the job major these social problems
and political problems in the rest
the job is to this country how it is
that the United States with all its
military services the Coast Guard the
CIA the FBI the DEA and cooperating
agencies including local police
departments how they are not able to
suppress the drug trade in the United
States how they cannot seal the borders
and stop these shipments coming in and
then the whole distribution system the
nature of the drug use and the
availability of drugs begin to change as
a Vietnam War went bad specifically
there was a shift from the availability
of relatively innocuous drugs like
marijuana and hashish on the street to
those drugs becoming relatively scarce
to the federal drug programs and they're
appearing instead a large quantity of a
very pure very cheap heroin DEA FBI CIA
military they're all into this
international narcotics trafficking so
it doesn't mean that any particular
target is only the the area of one
Intelligence Agency because there are
all kinds of interagency working groups
in which they coordinate their
activities directed toward a single
target the drug trade always supports
the government's internal is no not
support the government in turn
some of the month tribes Trice people
were involved in the production of
poppies and under the CIA that
production greatly increased in the
revenues from the sale of those drugs
which were flown out by CIA proprietary
airlines were used for the financed
covert operations by the CIA these
countries means - which is to
those people that they can one of the
effects is to take totally out of the
political picture a whole generation or
two of young black males who either get
involved in the drug trade and end up in
prison
or who get involved in consumption and
do not get involved in politics it's the
state that builds the archipelago of
prisons it's the state that invents a
rhetoric of three strikes and you're out
it's the state that invents a vocabulary
that is soaked in crime which is meant
to describe the lives of young people
adolescents basically
I've spent 19 years in prison in the
United States for my political beliefs
you the symbol that helps sustain me I
[Applause]
think we've had political prisons in the
United States for a very long time on an
official level they would not admit this
of course our political forces in United
States even if the US government will
never admit to them political prisoners
are the heartbeat of the struggle
reminders of what the struggle is really
about they have been behind the wall now
15 20 and going on 25 years they must
not be forgotten
32 exhibits surveillance no fingerprints
no no nothing else gets me convicted to
this day and these images of Colin town
and England
there's my hand at least to my lyrics in
my name of course novels are not and
they're still classified hearing to
determine the effect : tell pro of the
new defense movement like they did to
the left that the products responsible
must admit they're wrong in those
attacks of the devil a ssin of those
people constitutional rights
it will they've set a tone
reconciliation
[Music]
a single stone or a grain of sand as we
are each individuals if we change
ourselves if we do one small thing it's
much better than people trying to do big
things and for their self in all to
history no matter how much power has
surged to totalitarian to Empire Wars
and conquerors whether they be
governments or individuals as dictators
the Testaments of tyrants history has
always shown that the human spirit will
always prevail we do notice almost and
means we cannot say well I loves natural
hey it's unnatural hey breathe hey so
what you know but I have never known
where you have overcome hate with hate
but you can overcome hate with love and
respect I'll just say it and the words
Bob Marley stand up for your rights
don't let anybody tell you what you can
and you cannot do you can organize you
can educate you can make a difference we
have to learn how to sit down and talk
with each other first
until we can sit down and speak with
each other and sit down as men and women
that sit across from each other and
break bread bread and to learn that
you're human beings I don't care you
know how Paulo although you're
considered in poverty or what national
nationality or how rich you are until we
can learn to sit down with each other
and discuss the problems we're not gonna
be able to accomplish that
personal change because wherever she is
ultimately the most natural thing in the
universe rather she is speaking truth to
power it is recognized there is soul
identity and their future of duty and
Assessors to the transform of this we
don't want to be sure that everyone
knows that I still have to find but I'll
do what I can to be as productive for me
as I can then I have legal cases that
will put these issues in the public
record and we will continue to share
that with level and that the
international community should know that
the new Afrikan in goodness struggle and
the struggle for justice is live and
well it's dormant but here comes the
waiter from Omega
at the end of this journey let us look
inside our hearts with forgiveness
remembering not only the past and all
those whose lives were sacrificed to
violence the let us also examine how we
are going to survive together as
humanity into the future with a peace
and justice for all
[Music]
you